# sculpt

The only arguments are filenames, usually with a .-- extension. Each given file contains commands, each started with a --. Double dash commands that expect arguments ignore any text that does not satisfy the next expected argument. If a -- occurs before all expected arguments are satisfied, the incomplete command is ignored. Each instance of the program opens one OpenGL window. The program reads commands appended to the given files. Commands can manipulate the orientation and topology of planes. Planes form a file are considered a polytope. User manipulation of the mouse can cause commands to be appended to the polytope's file.

Each file is opened by a separate thread. Another thread reads from named pipes with .__ extensions. Commands from the files are sent to the OpenGl thread, or to a Haskell thread, or to a timewheel thread. The OpenGl thread takes buffer data, and runs programs to find point or plane sidedness, or to find pierce points, or to render the display. The Haskell thread takes sidedness information or region specification, changes the topology of the polytope, and sends subscript information to the OpenGL thread. The timewheel thread produces sound or framebuffer.

User manipulation of the mouse can cause transformation or additive or subtractive or refining or execution or revealing commands to append to the pierced polytope's file, or to modify memory mapped matrices in the files. Sending a -- with a pid command causes the process to wait for the write lock, but not send a command, change the memory mapped matrix, and release the write lock without appended text to indicate the matrix has changed.

